I'm Peter Breggin I'm a psychiatrist and
this is one in my series of simple
truths about psychiatry I've already
talked to you about stimulant drugs for
children and now I want to talk to you
about ADHD or attention deficit disorder
but first remember that stimulant drugs
don't cure anything they don't fix
anything they don't improve anything
they cause biochemical imbalances in the
brain that make children docile that
take away their spontaneity and make
them obsessively focus on things that
they don't care about there's no
evidence that stimulant drugs improve
anything past the first few weeks when
they subdue behavior there's no
improvement in academic performance
social life how people feel about
themselves sports these drugs should not
be given to children that's the vast
weight of scientific evidence that you
can find in my books like psychiatric
drug withdrawal and brain disabling
treatments in psychiatry but now let's
go on to what is ADHD I want you to
imagine you know maybe in your late 20s
or 30s that you went back to school was
it fun do you remember going back to
school and I'm thinking wow it was great
not too many of us think like that in
fact let's suppose somebody said you
could have a six-figure salary for 20
years and retire and all you would have
to do is everything you did in school
you would just sit all day long in hard
chairs with a desk in front of you you'd
have one person teaching you all day
long you'd have to raise your hand to go
to the bathroom you wouldn't be able to
socialize would you do that for 20 years
even for a good retirement you see ADHD
is about what we're trying to make our
children do that they're not comfortable
willing or able to do if you look in the
diagnostic manual for what are the
criteria for ADHD
they're about kids who are uncomfortable
in class the criteria include things
like fidgeting in chairs
squirming in chair cutting off the
teacher to answer questions before she's
finished asking them not standing in
line being too active what happened is
that the drug companies actually created
the diagnosis ADHD to sell it to
teachers and say we have a medication
that will get rid of all your
difficulties in your classroom they held
workshops they work to the Department of
Education to do it now is ADHD a disease
well it can't be a disease because think
about it what might make a child say
fidget and class will be hyperactive in
class or interrupt the teacher weight
could be almost anything it could be
that the child's behind in class and
uneasy and anxious because they can't
keep up it might be that the child's the
opposite of that that the child's way
ahead of class that the child's thinking
about things far beyond what's going on
in the classroom and is bored it could
be that the teacher is boring well maybe
the teachers been depressed for years
maybe the teacher doesn't know how to
have moral authority get the kids to
quiet down and listen to her
well maybe the child's going through a
divorce at home and it's just anxious
and fidgety and nervous and needy or
maybe the child's malnourished maybe the
child has an underlying problem like
head injury from sports because that can
give you all the same kinds of
activities in other words this list of
behaviors doesn't mean anything in my
experience that means a the parents
aren't disciplining the child properly
and within minutes in my office the
child's quieted down because I'm giving
intense attention really caring about
the child I'm interested in what the
child has to say and the parents learn
how to engage job right in front of
their eyes or the child doesn't have any
problem at all but school is boring I've
even seen children turn around
and be overnight with a change of
teacher so ADHD is not a disease it's
not a disorder but once you start giving
a child drugs for ADHD you create all
kinds of diseases and disorders children
get depressed on the drugs they get
psychotic on the drugs they lose weight
gets skinny weakened and fatigued on the
drugs they lose interest in socializing
on the drugs which is one of the main
effects that the teachers often see is
positive is not trying to socialize in
class anymore let me say in a word
there's no disorder there's no disease
the drugs just flattened spontaneous
behavior the great news is is that if
your child has ADHD like symptoms your
child is almost certainly either
perfectly normal and bored in school or
needs his parents to learn to discipline
him better while also providing
unconditional love read my book talking
back to Ritalin or the ritalin fat book
you'll find everything I'm saying is
documented with dozens of references and
you'll find better approaches to helping
your child be the normal kid he really
is thank you
you